It was just the accomodations that had been a nightmare.
Before we moved this time, though, we visited California for Nick's eighth grade graduation.
It was also great to see old friends again.
My brother freaked out when he saw my heartrate, which was discomforting.
Every redneck around went there to party.
That just didn't happen to me before the stroke, but it is a pretty common occurrence now.
Friday, May 25, 2007CHAPTER 18 TURNING THINGS AROUNDCount since July 09hughesnethughesnetI read over the blog -the last chapters were darker than I remembered.
I actually felt really bad about it because I couldn't help it.
We decided to get Nick out of this environment so he could still get into the College Preparatory school in the Bay Area.
Luckily his Mom was a nurse and patched him up.
They included a poem I wrote twenty five years ago.
They had come along at a great time and had been kind enough to help us, but we were clearly getting on each other's nerves.
I also found a power wheelchair I liked.
It was much better than the technology I had seen four years ago.
To them, it is probably just a normal reaction when they hear something they don't like, but it hits pretty hard- they might as well tell you to shut up and go sit in a corner.
We decided to stay until June no matter what so the kids could finish school.
Then we came up with a plan.
It was mixed news.
By now a black curtain was coming down.
One day he emailed to ask if they could paint the walls.
It all fell on Jane, like everything else, and she was too overworked to really pay attention to them.
Just before the court date, they started offering Nick more mone, but he told them to pound sand.
The ultimate insult occurs when someone is watching TV or is otherwise interrupted when I am in the middle of painfully spelling out something.
Just as I was about to go home, I noticed flashes in my left eye.
Focus on timing - nothing is harder to correct than a mistake.
Nick's raised a fund to pay for them so Jane could get a break.
No one besides Jane would take the time to constantly adjust me.
It backfired.
What really brought the elasticity of time into focus was my side yard.
Elaine later explained (in much more detail than we cared to hear) that she couldn't come down because of what she was doing with Jerry.
Which is it?
In the event, it came down to the last word and I won.
It got stuck in my throat and cut off most of my air.
At first I was confused, but soon learned to appreciate their experience.
The speech therapist didn't do anything, either, so friends and family finished it.
In the meantime, they set the plate of aromatic food on my tray, right under my nose.
All in all, about twenty five articles have been written about me -google Henry Evans, quadriplegic.
At least I can still run in my dreams.
Then it got nasty.
They did their normal tests and discovered my heart rate was 250 [normal is about 80].
Odds are they won't do it.
executive whom people didn't bother very often, and when I woke up from my coma I couldn't even go to the bathroom by myself.
Jane offered half.
It took two weeks to repair and I almost went nuts.
OK, one more digression -evolution.
My answer usually depends on how hungry I am.
It was a Godsend, especially after formal therapy ended.
It's not that people don't care, they are just too consumed with their own lives to do anything.
The first winter ended on a deja vu moment.
Sometimes I can and sometimes I can't.
Most of us are able to take control over our own bodies for granted.
Neither was my mind, including my memory, which is very good.
Big help she was!
It amounted to over twenty people.
Meanwhile she passes numerous parking spots for normal cars.
Thus, when I am left alone with strangers they treat me like a vegetable.
That is, until we have the inevitable spousal tiff.
The doctors even told her I would be better off dead, and then tried to put me in a nursing home to die of neglect.
It built up in me until I completely lost it, shreiking hysterically at the top of my lungs in front of five hundred people.
We decided, however, to give our place in California a try, since it was home to us and we had a much broader support group there.
