It was just the accomodations that had been a nightmare.
Before we moved this time, though, we visited California for Nick's eighth grade graduation.
It was also great to see old friends again.
My brother freaked out when he saw my heartrate, which was discomforting.
Every redneck around went there to party.
That just didn't happen to me before the stroke, but it is a pretty common occurrence now.
Friday, May 25, 2007CHAPTER 18 TURNING THINGS AROUNDCount since July 09hughesnethughesnetI read over the blog -the last chapters were darker than I remembered.
I actually felt really bad about it because I couldn't help it.
We decided to get Nick out of this environment so he could still get into the College Preparatory school in the Bay Area.
Luckily his Mom was a nurse and patched him up.
They included a poem I wrote twenty five years ago.
They had come along at a great time and had been kind enough to help us, but we were clearly getting on each other's nerves.
I also found a power wheelchair I liked.
It was much better than the technology I had seen four years ago.
To them, it is probably just a normal reaction when they hear something they don't like, but it hits pretty hard- they might as well tell you to shut up and go sit in a corner.
We decided to stay until June no matter what so the kids could finish school.
Then we came up with a plan.
It was mixed news.
By now a black curtain was coming down.
One day he emailed to ask if they could paint the walls.
It all fell on Jane, like everything else, and she was too overworked to really pay attention to them.
Just before the court date, they started offering Nick more mone, but he told them to pound sand.
The ultimate insult occurs when someone is watching TV or is otherwise interrupted when I am in the middle of painfully spelling out something.
Just as I was about to go home, I noticed flashes in my left eye.
Focus on timing - nothing is harder to correct than a mistake.
Nick's raised a fund to pay for them so Jane could get a break.
No one besides Jane would take the time to constantly adjust me.
It backfired.
What really brought the elasticity of time into focus was my side yard.
Elaine later explained (in much more detail than we cared to hear) that she couldn't come down because of what she was doing with Jerry.
Which is it?
In the event, it came down to the last word and I won.
It got stuck in my throat and cut off most of my air.
At first I was confused, but soon learned to appreciate their experience.
The speech therapist didn't do anything, either, so friends and family finished it.
In the meantime, they set the plate of aromatic food on my tray, right under my nose.
All in all, about twenty five articles have been written about me -google Henry Evans, quadriplegic.
At least I can still run in my dreams.
Then it got nasty.
They did their normal tests and discovered my heart rate was 250 [normal is about 80].
Odds are they won't do it.
executive whom people didn't bother very often, and when I woke up from my coma I couldn't even go to the bathroom by myself.
Jane offered half.
It took two weeks to repair and I almost went nuts.
OK, one more digression -evolution.
My answer usually depends on how hungry I am.
It was a Godsend, especially after formal therapy ended.
It's not that people don't care, they are just too consumed with their own lives to do anything.
The first winter ended on a deja vu moment.
Sometimes I can and sometimes I can't.
Most of us are able to take control over our own bodies for granted.
Neither was my mind, including my memory, which is very good.
Big help she was!
It amounted to over twenty people.
Meanwhile she passes numerous parking spots for normal cars.
Thus, when I am left alone with strangers they treat me like a vegetable.
That is, until we have the inevitable spousal tiff.
The doctors even told her I would be better off dead, and then tried to put me in a nursing home to die of neglect.
It built up in me until I completely lost it, shreiking hysterically at the top of my lungs in front of five hundred people.
We decided, however, to give our place in California a try, since it was home to us and we had a much broader support group there.
This was a tall order for Jane, who nonetheless was determined to try.
People didn't used to tell me to shut up often - it takes some getting used to.
Handicapped people are often seen as selfish with their many demands, but it is more complicated than that.
But to that animal, I doubt it SEEMS short.
They will, but not until it is too late.
Right now, most days a family of deer likes to forage for acorns under our big oak tree, which frames the view of the valley below.
Not that it is the same equilibrium as a normal person - I am used to things taking a long time and so I appear patient to everyone else.
It was the only time we would ever see him.
A local newspaper covered it - see henry-evans.
Most importantly, it is tough and simple, so any caregiver can set it up.
They had a fishing derby for the handicapped, and we entered.
If this all seems incomprehensible, now you know what it feels like to be able to do nothing but think.
I think we are both mad that it happened and often think of happier times together.
Everyone else made book on us.
To my surprise, they answered, saying they would come take a look.
Unable to chew it or cry out, I reflexively swallowed it whole.
Jerry and Elaine used to run restaurants, so they knew how to handle large crowds and entertain everyone.
A double-wide with a nice view of the lake.
 More than once I have asked a child to do something only to be told  No, and don't ask me for the Board.
That means I have to wait until someone else is good and ready to feed me.
All in all, it was great fun and a nice distraction.
It helped slow them down.
We used it about three times and then never used it again.
Our policy is to pay half of their first car, and then they are on their own.
The antlers silohuetted against the fog at sunset still take my breathe away.
 What came before?
We still had our Chevrolet Suburban back in California.
The truth is, we both have it bad, but whereas I am stuck in this nightmare, she is not.
Around people who knew me before my stroke, it is different.
I can't put math to it, but the rate at which time appears to pass is inversely proportional to the rate at which things around us change.
Once when it broke we called a guy we had gotten to know.
I decided that speech is the main thing that separates us from other forms of life.
After awhile I got used to it - there is no point in fighting it because there was often no way to even express what I needed.
My kids often feed me.
Then the water stopped Working.
There is confusion when nothing happens.
He was VP-Marketing for a speech device company.
No, this whole area calls for our being humble enough to admit we just don't know yet to say exactly what happened, just as many things were shrouded in mystery for years before a completely new perspective revealed a generally plausible answer.
We did, and bundled them with a Napa Valley wine train ride.
So my story ends as it began - with my family saving my life.
Then, the very next week, a friend, Rick Zirpolo, took me in his racecar at Infineon Raceway.
My life was so jumbled up, I was kind of numb.
I can't really feed myself, except under special circumstances.
We had tried counseling, but it didn't work for me because I am mute.
This alone might take a week.
I put a new standard for selfishness on others, too, probably unfairly.
 Why haven't many other planets produced life?
A few people (complete strangers)have even been fascinated with the whole thing and have learned how to use the board to have a conversation with me.
We weren't so taken aback this time, mostly because it was for such a short period of time.
It may not sound like much, but it was huge.
One thing the Board is no good at is yelling.
We also took the opportunity to thank everyone in Montana for helping us out.
She had owned a daycare, and so was more familiar with kids than Jerry and Elaine had been.
I have had people wave their arms in my face, screaming at me as if I were deaf AND stupid.
It has been four years - I wonder if my mind will ever come to grips with what happened.
It is now usually afternoon.
I had planned on it taking a few weeks.
I can't even try to move most muscles - I can't do anything at all.
Over time, you just have to let them learn things for themselves.
Dogs can't talk, so many people assume 1) they are pretty stupid compared to people who can (I know some people who might be exceptions), and 2) that they have no emotions.
About this time I became eligible for Medicare.
posted by hevans at 6:19 PM 1 commentsCHAPTER 8 THE SECOND WINTERAfter a year of going without help, Jane was getting burned out, and wanted to hire help, The person we had interviewed the last time, Emma, was available again, and we hired her.
The boys immediately denied it and gave him their guns for ballistics testing.
Jane had the car towed to a brake shop later that day.
I told the doctor I didn't feel well, but he said that was no reason to keep me.
Not only was the technology good, it was reasonably priced.
posted by hevans at 6:24 PM 0 commentsCHAPTER 11 REBUILDING OUR LIFE/THE SECOND BIG SETBACKSo we set about rebuilding our life.
Through some stroke of luck (no pun intended), a man in a nearby town had an aunt with a condition similar to mine.
By the Evans FamilyCopyright 2006-All rights reserved.
Our old world was coming back together.
I'm not trying to make any grand revelations here, but am just trying to make sense of what happened to me.
When someone says  Move your leg,  they might as well be talking about the chair leg across the room - it feels to be as much a part of you as the leg that happens to be attached to your body.
The worst part about it is I never appear any smarter than the person using it.
Oh well - I was used to giving up on my old dreams.
One night it almost caused me to pass out - my blood pressure, normally 110, was 38.
Instead of telling me how to avoid it, she said, Oh, I hear it is not so bad.
posted by hevans at 6:25 PM 1 commentsCHAPTER 12 WHAT IT IS LIKE TO BE PARALYZED AND MUTEFirst of all, I should explain exactly what is wrong with me.
What really turned it around for us was returning to familiar friends and places in California.
That led to one of my worst frustrations.
Kids often don't obey when you repeat things many times; to expect them to hold up the Board while you REPEAT anything is ridiculous - you are lucky if you even get to make your point once.
People often instinctively raise their voice.
We couldn't blame her, and decided to go without help for awhile.
It is the people with the most energy who find the time to actually do something.
Well, at least that made our decision to stay in Montana easy.
They are not, I am only trying to make everyone's life easier.
The tests came back inconclusive, but the landlord wanted money for it anyway, along with an old couch and some miscellaneous things.
About six months after we returned to California I began eating solid food - even chewy things like meat, as long as someone put it between my teeth.
The guy actually accused Nick .
They laughed at her.
What that meant was I was not allowed, by law, to keep my Blue Cross policy (except as a supplement).
 The best micrometer in the world couldn't tell them apart.
Luckily they weren't doing anything else stupid like drinking or speeding.
In the big picture, neither of our lifespans is significant in view of the earth's existence.
Finally I had the surgery.
Let's face it - when I was comatose I would have died without a strong advocate like jane.
The paramedics arrived and hauled me out on a gurney.
After all of this, I was able to drive and speak all by moving my head.
Women are more likely to do this than men, although some men do it very well.
She could leave this nightmare anytime, but doesn't.
I knew it was not the insurance company, because by now we had gotten to know them and they were both sympathetic and helpful.
He then ran away to feed himself.
Doing so would greatly enhance his chances of getting into the high school of his choice in the Bay Area.
On the one hand, we wouldn't get rent for six months.
 What happens when there are no heavenly bodies revolving around each other to mark the passage of time?
For starters, I can only email people who give me their email, and can only have conversation with people if they answer back.
He was an inventor, and had built her a power bike for both arms and legs.
She promptly launches into a verbal assault, and won't give me the Board to respond.
In this way the returning boy, who doubtless thought he had pulled one over on us, arrived to a very unpleasant welcome.
Older friends started to reappear and take up the slack.
They recognized me for who I was and made me feel human.
posted by hevans at 6:13 PM 2 commentsCHAPTER 16 RELATIONSHIPSWIFEWhat can I say?
It gets gross when they have a runny nose, and constantly wipe it on their hand.
It was prophetic - happily we had just traded the landlord problems of Montana for the everyday problems of running a household.
Next work out a way to signal 'end of word'- this eliminates a LOT of problems.
I am perceived as being selfish because I can't explain all of this and because the legs are perceived as being part of me.
 You should hear how he is going to make it into a convertible!
After awhile the people close to me began to be able to interpret these as words.
We designed a special tray and had a custom plastics guy make it to hold my computer.
I used to get up early and walk in the backyard to take in the beauty of the sunrise with a big cup of coffee.
Over time, I find that the people who help the most aren't necessarily your 'best' friends, or the most 'religious,' or even the closest relatives.
With one stroke I became completely dependent for everything - eating, drinking, going to the bathroom, scratching itches, etc.
For example, when you want to say,  I want to go outside to see how cold it is,  they might stop after  I want to go out,  drop the Board, and say,  No, it is too cold.
That is the blessed curse of my situation - I can feel pain but can't do anything about it except eventually signal for help.
The guy somehow convinced his insurance company to only offer Nick half.
She always bloomed where she was planted, so we didn't worry about her.
I said before how it can take all morning to get up.
And I showed Nick not to let himself get pushed around, no matter if you are a quadriplegic mute.
To the contrary, I was a health and safety nut - this struck me down in the prime of my life without warning - I still can't believe it.
To the extent I can move anything, it tires me out immediately - something which is very foreign to me - I used to be a long distance runner.
When the inner lining of my basilar artery came apart, it destroyed my center of motor control, leaving me quadriplegic and mute.
posted by hevans at 1:51 PM 1 commentsFriday, July 14, 2006CHAPTER 14 THE 'BOARD'First of all, what is 'the Board?
Luckily, this is pretty rare.
All in all, it was a great summer.
The first opthamologist thought he saw something and wanted another opinion.
The garden I started before my stroke still isn't done, and it has been four years.
The rental agency urged the guy to take it, probably because they knew they didn't have a tape.
I soon started having more medical problems.
I really missed California, but not for the obvious reasons weather, etc.
People, especially little children, often ask me what it feels like to be paralyzed.
I kept feeling faint, so Jane called my brother.
A physician at the clinic there discovered that a low dose of Prozac actually helped me control my emotions (although not completely).
While we are on the subject of food, I might as well Bring up another pet peeve.
In any event I got off of the heart medicine and resumed therapy.
They drugged me up and made an appointment with a cardiologist in Missoula, about an hour South.
This was only partly true, because we would have had to come back from California for court.
Some people have a knack for knowing what I need.
One of the struggles it leads to is how to be a good father and husband.
The speech therapist, Sandra Deane, saw to it that I got a speaking computer for my wheelchair.
Then they ask double questions, like  Do you want more or not?
What kind of technology could they have here?
We kind of felt helpless, because, unlike California, we didn't know anybody.
Work out a way to say 'start over'- for when things get all tangled up or you change your mind about what to say.
CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORYCHAPTER 1 THE EARLY DAYSCHAPTER 2 THE FIRST DAYS OF THERAPYCHAPTER 3 OUTPATIENT THERAPYCHAPTER 4 MONTANACHAPTER 5 THE FIRST BIG SETBACKCHAPTER 6 THE FIRST WINTERCHAPTER 7 ON THE ROAD AGAINCHAPTER 8 THE SECOND WINTERCHAPTER 9 THE LANDLORDCHAPTER 10 BACK HOME!
Not being able to make my presence felt is another big source of frustration.
One of them slipped running down the hill and impaled his buttocks on a tree branch which broke off inside him.
To go anywhere they would get me in the wheelchair, quickly roll it into the van, and lay me on the bed in there.
We got a call from someone who set up a prayer group for the 'flyer family,' and from a real estate agent trying to sell something, but no tangible help.
The kids definitely settled down back with old friends.
I am often misunderstood because of the way questions are asked.
I got the feeling that the people in the hospital in San Jose were just waiting for Jane to walk out on me.
Let's take that one step further.
 And her family, who had been pretty close to us, didn't have any guts, either.
We got the TV, DVD and VCR working and headed out.
About three am the police woke the Dad up and said there was a stolen cow in the green car.
Yet to me it appears very selfish - they dangle delisciuos food in front of a hungry man because THEY want to yap.
Right before the procedure, she dropped the kids off with Jane, saying she had to do something.
The exercise machine she was using in the motel came apart and hit her right between the eyes, stunning her and knocking her back.
After our part was done I wrote Jerry a very nice note asking him to do his part.
The Physical and Occupational Therapists were two little Indian women and they were very good.
Once again I was made to realize you can't take anything for granted.
Some other friends offered their design services, and a contractor built it.
 Not only did my wife save my life but she is the one who keeps me going now.
One day, as I was staring at Fogarty Winery across the valley, I decided to email them and see if they would plant my land in grapes, which had always been my dream.
People often complain about euthanasia.
The turnaround in my life began with the vineyard.
Basically, when I have no choice but to try to communicate with someone who is no good at the Board, I stick to single, short words when I talk at all.
Another thing I don't understand is how my caregivers, who know how much I fought for life, can throw theirs away by smoking.
Talking to teenagers with the Board does not work - they just put it down and walk away if you say something they don't like.
What he said, we don't know because she never told us.
Meanwhile, we had gotten to know a used car dealer in Montana who said he would have no problems selling it for a lot more.
The Dad, thinking they meant a real cow, assured them there was not.
He told us that it was up to the landlord to prove damages (and without videotape of the place before we moved in, we would win 100% in court).
In other words, nobody will care enough to keep you well, so just accept it.
In the awake state, your body is no longer part of 'you' in the normal sense, because you can't control it.
No wonder it hurt!
Luckily she came out okay after a few days.
The hospital, as would be expected, sent a muckity-muck in a suit to make sure everything went smoothly and to take some credit.
My senses, including touch, were not affected.
Then Emma offered to help us.
But at least I learned to keep my big mouth shut!
We were spending the night at a motel.
It is kind of like trying to have a back and forth conversation with someone in another city via regular mail.
The mornings in summer are crystal clear because we are above the Bay fog and smog below.
We barely made it.
That is no fun for either party.
Humor me for a minute while I play philosopher.
People who, despite declaring themselves to be good friends, talk the most about how much money they have, are least likely to help significantly with either time or money.
Nevertheless, our life was never quite normal.
We passed on it and looked at a house that the agent showed us .
Before they inevitably burned out, the boys were pretty helpful, putting in a watering system, an arbor, and raised beds.
As helpless and as unattached to the environment as I was, it was hard for me to imagine us arising out of the mud, even given the passage of time.
They wheeled me out to the edge of our backyard so I could look down into the Nature Preserve that adjoins our property.
We know our kids are not perfect but Nick sure didn't ACT guilty.
After it kept happening, though, with no lasting effect, I realized it must just be how the brain works - in a dream state I revert to a 'normal' me.
 What is so special about five billion years, the age of our universe, especially if time is so elastic, as it was for me?
For the whole story see laserfinger, which references many articles, including one by he AP, which showed up all around the world.
It seemed like life those days was filled with horrible decisions.
As Jane was getting me up one day, I felt faint and laid back in Terry's guest bedroom.
What it was, I don't know because no one ever got me involved, but it must have upset her because she decided no one from her family would ever talk to our family again.
We didn't know any lawyers.
 No, as I lay there I became convinced we just don't know where we came from, at least not in the way we know everyday things.
posted by hevans at 6:20 PM 0 commentsCHAPTER 9 THE LANDLORDThe landlord decided to do something.
Henry Evans, 1981posted by hevans at 7:05 PM 102 commentsThursday, March 01, 2007CHAPTER 19 - Our New LifeCURRENT WORK IN PROGRESSposted by hevans at 3:26 PM 3 commentsMonday, August 14, 2006CHAPTER 17 WHAT DOES 'YOU' MEAN - THE MENTAL VERSUS THE PHYSICALMy body changed in a few hours, but my mind still has not fully accepted it.
We learned two things: the neighbor was a certified nut and was good friends with our landlord, who was not nuts, but heartless even though his son was in a wheelchair.
Her reaction was telling.
This is where having a private 'ambulance' was so handy.
The reporter did a very nice job.
I learned, for example, to say,  I love you Jane,  for the first time.
The fossil record indicates that evolution likely played some role, but it does not account for everything.
It is hard to express any emotion when you are slowly spelling out words it is hard to convey a sense of urgency.
We were driving in the van one day and caught a glimpse of our picture on the front page.
Sometimes it is better to keep quiet than to be perceived as selfish, and just let what happens happen.
Everyone is concerned at first, but as the years pass, only my wife stays by my side to take care of me.
She then decided she was going to be in charge of Nick's academics.
This was no trivial undertaking.
She was pretty hard-headed, and so was a good match for me.
This was bad news because it meant I had to lay in bed for two long months before therapy could resume, virtually assuring that I was not going home at Christmas.
It is something I doubt I will ever come to grips with.
In a word, it is very dehumanizing.
Exceptions might be taking a shower or going to the bathroom, either of which takes about two hours.
About 3 1/2 years after my stroke I began to eat solid food again.
They just ignore your point of view and don't let you type anything else.
However, when Nick found out this lady was somehow getting all of his grades, he said something to her.
When they finally do get around to feeding me, they do so very deliberately, despite the fact that I am famished.
Nick bought a nice used Nissan, and Steve bought two more Honda's - real junkers, and decorated our driveway with them.
First, soon after we moved in the booking agent got fired.
For some reason, other anti-depressants did not.
When I had the stroke I was just starting on the sideyard and vineyard.
The family that had agreed to take him, however, changed their mind, so we would have to make other arrangements.
Don and Barb chipped in and helped us move everything in and get comfortable.
What makes it worse is I have to stay on their good side so they will pick up the Board when I want to say I need food or water.
Another 'friend' really shocked us.
At first he was fine.
It is still just as quick, but it takes me so long to say anything that most of the time the timing is ruined anyway.
Finally, make about ten Boards so you can always find one.
It feels very much like dog training - if you don't behave the way they want you to, they assume something is wrong with you.
The guy detailed it and even threatened to buy it himself, then put it on his lot for $9,800.
By the next day she had a bad headache, and we decided to rest a day.
Because they were in a hurry, the girls took Stephen's Honda.
There are a lot of nuances to using email as your primary form of communication, however.
I had always been fiercely independent, probably to a fault.
Every now and then someone actually delivers, and at that point we are truly grateful.
No one can follow complex thoughts on the board I communicate with, so I am forced to reduce everything to basic thoughts.
Expect 1 -2 chapters per month.
I went through another bout of eating out, especially sushi.
I usually lay awake all night, watching the second hand go around to pass the time.
The boys professed an interest in working, so we went after it.
We have often debated who has it worse - the person trapped in their body or the one left to care for them.
Being a mute quadriplegic is definitely no picnic, but some positive things have been happening to make the situation a lot more bearable.
Communication at a higher level is impossible.
I thought I was going crazy.
An example for me is opening my mouth so someone can brush my teeth.
She began doing frequent bed checks, and when she found an empty bed she would climb in and go to sleep.
The tenants had, without asking, painted the interior walls.
Then, I had to communicate how to do it.
Poor little girl was probably scarred for life.
When we had time, we had those walls repainted.
People say I am very patient, and I am.
It was a good lesson.
Not easy for a perfectionist, but the other choice was to do nothing.
She worked out well, and we ended up keeping her for over a year.
Next, I thought it would be interesting to record what it is like to go through life as a mute quadriplegic.
They also worked on projects I had started before my stroke and generally calmed down when surrounded by old friends and familiar places.
That is my life, and is just a stroke away for everyone.
He insisted that the nurses help him, and they did, even though they weren't supposed to.
It comes down to basic needs, and most people take care of their own needs first, regardless of how much pain I might be in.
I learn fast.
What was laughable was that when we asked to see the damage And to do ballistics tests, he said he had already fixed his house and threw away the bullet.
All of this could be said about me, especially when I am around only strangers.
Again, the boys sure didn't ACT guilty.
It was like a bad dream.
   That was, well, the wrong thing to tell Jane.
He decided to have a little conference with the other party.
Someone that stops feeding me to talk about something trivial may think nothing of it.
It was about this time that we got the idea for our cookbook.
Ok, enough musings; now back on track.
After the Fourth, we stopped by a fireworks stand that was closing up, and they gave us many leftovers.
In the event, when she realized we were actually going to take her up on it, she changed her mind and we had to scramble and find someone else.
Another thing that makes you look bad is when you try to say something, buy no one wants to take the time to use the Board.
This Christmas I got a card from someone I had not heard from in twenty five years.
I can even tell people to be quiet now, And no one can edit what I say, much to their chagrin.
The odds aren't good - about ninety five percent of marriages to people who get quadriplegia don't make it.
The 'vineyard' was really neat - perched right on the edge of a hill outside my window.
Meanwhile, all that laying around gave me pneumonia on top of everything else.
When I came to, my eye was bandaged and sore.
He was a paraplegic who had been an All-Pro linebacker for the Miami Dolphins.
 I think I was the first quadriplegic the track had ever seen!
The local paper did a story on a patient each year, and this time they chose me.
It raised $5000and we got a standing ovation.
They talk right around me as if I weren't there.
I also realized how lucky I am to have Jane.
Once again, we were looking for a place at the worst possible time of the year.
They didn't even get a ticket; the police said they just couldn't drive their truck on the road.
Everyone else, including me, was in shock, and waiting for the nightmare to end.
We had been planning it around a Notre Dame football game, but decided we didn't want to dampen everyone's spirit's (except Alicia, my physical therapist, who went to USC), so we passed on that.
Anyone could do anything they wanted with me.
One of the most insidious aspects of the Board is the way it changes your perceived personality.
However, dissemination of all or any part of this blog, in any way, for a fee of any type, is prohibited.
 Luckily Nick decided to apologize to the homeowners, whom Jane had known, and they dropped all charges.
I had been looking for just such a device, and since his aunt had passed on, they sold it to me.
That is not a knock on Montana -we just had a huge support group in California.
Since I can't control my body, I often ask for things for it because I know it will cause trouble if I don't.
We made custom labels with a picture of our backyard at sunset -Hevans Vineyards.
It is hard to conceive of a change more drastic than the one I experienced -one day an overactive father, CFO, and husband; the next day a motionless mute.
History has a funny way of compressing time.
That was no help!
Laserfinger as an idea had its roots back in Montana when someone gave me an environmental control unit that originally cost five thousand dollars.
This was the real deal -we went 125 miles per hour!
In the end, it felt good to be home.
About the same time they planted our vines, a friend, Allyson Campa, suggested we write a blog.
In court, the guy's defense, unbelievably, was that the police were all wrong when they said it was his fault.
CHAPTER 11 REBUILDING OUR LIFEREFLECTIONSCHAPTER 20 WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO BE PARALYZED AND MUTECHAPTER 21 THE FRUSTRATIONS OF BEING DISABLEDCHAPTER 22 THE BOARDCHAPTER 23 THE PASSAGE OF TIME WHEN YOU ARE PARALYZEDCHAPTER 24 RELATIONSHIPSCHAPTER 25 WHAT DOES 'YOU' MEAN?
That meant one less thing to deal with in California.
What does seem to make a difference is the rate of change - when I first got sick and overniight went from hyperactive to motionless, the passage of time seemed to take FOREVER; but now that I am in a routine again things have reached an equilibrium again.
It was so painful, I was convinced it would kill me in a few years.
Rather, it has to do with her INSISTENCE that we always find handicapped parking with room to operate our lift.
Our friend had it detailed and tried to sell it for about nine thousand dollars.
We could have fought him on it, but we were tired of him and his friend.
In this way we slowly spell what I want to say.
One thing I never have liked is how much power over me the Board gives them.
Worst, the hall was lime green and one of the walls in our bedroom was orange.
They almost succeeded.
It is what makes trying to be a parent so hard for me - especially when Jane is gone.
 The local news even showed Nick's car, assuming he had taken the cow for political reasons.
As I sat there gasping for air, my thirteen year old daughter Mikala jumped in.
I had to spell on the board,   I am neither deaf nor stupid.
That was probably due to the fact that I was transitioning from leading a frenzied life to laying perfectly still on my back all day.
My center of emotional control was also severely damaged, leaving me extremely labile.
Forget trying to be forceful or even persistent.
The first thing we did was stuff a few hundred mailboxes with a flyer with our story, thinking someone who left for the winter would rent their house to us.
Often people don't answer, but there is something about being able to ask that is better than the alternative.
Wrong.
We never said anything overtly, but we stopped encouraging her friendship and eventually she went away.
My birthday is on October tenth, and everyone came to our house for a birthday party.
My routine is usually this; get ready for the day and get in the wheelchair.
Everyone else just talks.
The first thing we did was to call five lawyers, but none of them returned our call.
To stay at Terry's meant sending Steven to 'Flathead High', not exactly what he needed.
When Jane got to the station, an officer met her at the door saying,  Your son is a genius!
It was fun - we had some pictures taken in Home Depot and showed that I could be independent for brief periods of time.
I may even become impatient if the person takes their time.
 When Jane is around, she often fixes things, but she is often busy or gone.
It would have been much better if they had just told me the usual out comes and their probabilities, instead of treating me like that.
On the other hand, they were leaving peacefully when I thought that might be a struggle.
The guy took our offer, and then left us alone.
 In the event, I was favorably impressed.
She tended to freak out in pressure situations, and this time she panicked and called Jane.
We consoled ourselves with the thought that at least the old cars gave them something to do and kept them nearby and out of trouble.
It is only partly due to my nature.
She showed us a place with tiled floors, no step, a Lake view and a month - to - month lease.
An example might be dropping the  let's  from  let's go outside  - the person might then just drop the Board and leave - very frustrating.
We had sent the kids to public schools because there wasn't really anything else available, and in Big Fork that meant one campus and one bus for all four kids.
One of them presented itself when it became obvious we wouldn't be able to wrap up therapy by Christmas, and it had to do with Nick.
 I don't remember doing something that was that much fun, , or doing something dangerous or stupid.
People would knock on the door at all hours wanting a tour.
One of my friends took me on a walk in my wheelchair every Sunday.
We finally gave it to my brother for $4,500, because he had helped us so much.
The time flew, and soon we were saying goodbye and getting ready to go back again, where we had to move into a new house.
I envisioned a device like my headtracker that would allow me to switch on lights just by looking at them.
 THE MENTAL VERSUS THE PHYSICALCHAPTER 26 INTERACTING WITH OTHER PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT -TECHNOLOGICAL IDEASCHAPTER 27 THE POSSIBILITY OF A CUREposted by hevans at 2:43 PM 3 commentsSaturday, July 15, 2006CHAPTER 15 THE PASSAGE OF TIMEWhen I first emerged from the coma, time took an eternity.
They assume I am still at least partly the person I always was.
the truth is that some people are good at it and some are not.
It was in nice shape, but we had put 106,000 miles on it and it was, after all, an American car.
I still can move normally in my dreams, for example.
Seeing all of those other people made me realize how lucky I had it; but it also made me realize how much I had lost, so it was hard to appreciate it.
Two more things hapened recently.
Jane had no choice but to take them home - they weren't allowed to stay.
Sure enough, there was the plywood cow, with the GPS tracker blinking madly.
If this wasn't enough, it was about this time that our teenage boys decided to act like, well, teenage boys.
We needed some time to figure everything out - but we didn't get it.
I'll never forget when Mike asked if she was going to steal our van - he was really traumatized by Keith.
Say, for example, I wanted to move a board from my driveway, a task that used to take me a few seconds.
It was great to see everyone, but the trip was hard on me.
I had what I wanted - bragging rights.
Basically, there were a few good students but many people were just getting by - not a great environment for teenage boys with a powerless father and an overworked mother, and no support group of old friends.
Once, Jane had a close call.
They ended up writing a two part article on us which won some kind of award.
I typed out directions for my kids and my dad.
Kids can actually be very observant, but they often have short attention spans.
After we had moved out, the landlord had he police find us and accuse the boys of shooting pellet guns at an old shack at the rear of his property.
However, he refused to speak to us or give me his email.
Medicare cut that off right away - they said two years was a long time and if we wanted to complain to call such and such a beaureaucrat, etc - as if we had time!
The cardiologist gave me medicine to slow down my heart and said I had atrial flutter and needed surgery.
Once we were at our kids' talent show.
Despite this, they discharged me.
I can't explain what happened; they never get THAT explaination right, either.
I learned to pedal a handbike without assistance, wheel my wheelchair if someone pulled my hands into position, use the Total Gym, kick a ball, etc.
posted by hevans at 6:14 PM 0 commentsCHAPTER 5 THE FIRST BIG SETBACKOur life, which the year before had settled down, was completely unsettled.
What, so one lives one/five billionnth years and the other eighty /five billionnths?
  The next day we had the truck taken to a junkyard in order to prevent any more outbreaks.
If, God forbid, someone has used the spot WITHOUT a clearly marked handicapped sticker, we get treated to another tirade.
Unfortunately, Montana isn't exactly on the beaten path, so visits weren't as frequent as they could have been.
Around March, we asked the landlord if we could stay there for the summer, because we wanted plenty of time if we had to find another place.
At first everything was great.
 .
A few people visited us in Montana, always a welcome respite.
Then I have to endure two hours of haranguing.
He said, Sure.
Steven was able to do some of the driving, but he was only fifteen.
They stored most of our stuff, but managed to discard a few personal items, like the fly fishing rods I had made by hand.
We solaced ourselves with the knowledge that Steven could get back in the school at Christmas, and Nick's best friend said Nick could live with them if we stayed past December.
They would say  Hi to Jane and try not to look at me.
Go figure.
When I stood up in Montana and we decided to stay there, Steve was one week from going to the high school of his dreams.
Another common problem is when they INSIST on a yes/no answer.
The more I tried to stop, the louder I got.
They insisted on dragging Nick out of bed and making him open the car.
The ability to empathize with your plight enough to offer actual help is rare indeed.
  The answer might be  Yes, if you put it between my teeth.
At night my limbs sometimes lie so still I begin to get sores - I feel the pain but can't move enough to relieve them.
Around the end of the year they told me that I probably would not be in therapy anymore by June.
They arrived with about ten people, and said I could take a helicopter if I needed to.
some friends at St.
They also stop when they think they get it.
I was always my own biggest fan, anyway.
First, Jane and Fogarty Vineyards harvested our grapes and made wine.
Worse, we were subject to monthly reviews by the insurance company to let us know if we could continue in therapy - after I stood up they decided to pay for therapy every day.
To my surprise, they didn't read them carefully, when they read them at all.
Then we could have made some informed decisions about our lives.
They did, and said it was too small for them to be interested in.
They determined that I had a urinary tract infection and put me on intravenous antibiotics.
First she tried to give me the Heimlich manuver, but couldn't reach around me.
The sun will shine and bring to youIts warm and fresh and happy grin;You'll grab the world with all your armsAnd hug its happiness again.
Meanwhile the whole Laserfinger thing was taking off.
  It is addictive , they whine.
After MIT, we went on to St.Louis, where we saw old friend.
My part is also painstaking and difficult, although I am used to it.
And you are lucky to say something once if people don't like what you are saying and think you are repeating it, they just put down the Board, effectively telling you to shut up, something that only gets you madder.
Hard times really bring out people's true colors.
Meanwhile we started trying to find a rental home.
Even with that, what really matters is to have LOTS of friends, because everyone alone has their limits.
Coming home was harder on Jane - seeing all of the places we had shared so many memories was painful for her.
As a result, time almost stood still while I adjusted to my new reality.
Often times they can't get me up until mid-morning, and 3.00 PM
Instead, he hid behind his obvious lie and watched us move to an old run down resort nearby.
The nurses just treated me like another mute quadriplegic, and assumed that my wife would leave me and my life would be hell from now on, like they had seen so many times before.
I had never been shy before about moving to new places, but this time it was different, because people I met hadn't known me before my stroke.
Now when my legs spasmed, the sheet kept them from pulling up and waking us.
All she has to do is have the kids unload me by the door and go park.
My right arm started to swell and get sore, and my regular doctor confirmed that it was a blood clot and gave me blood thinners.
We thus made a little headway on the homefront.
They kept sending in a shrink to talk to me and I think she kept wondering why I didn't need her - she finally went away.
The older boys were especially vulnerable; given that we tore their worlds apart just as they were becoming teenagers and needed a father.
Somehow we actually manage to do pretty well.
 It is ALMOST not worth it.
We live on a high (2000') hill above Silicon Valley.
I think everyone is just busy.
Believe it or not, I have come a long way.
Even speech computers can be turned off.
They learned to take care of me like a baby.
A guy named Jim Shea read it and said his employer made a product that could help me.
I think they just don't care enough about life.
We complained, and the landlord agreed to give us a day's notice each time.
They finally gave up and dragged me into the lobby, where I eventually calmed down.
I even learned to slowly draw simple diagrams on Power Point (with assistance).
For example, I may feel my legs about to straighten and ask for a blanket because I know how much work it creates when they stiffen.
And I knew the wheelchair had damaged some walls, so I wanted to offer him some money because I figured he just wanted to redo everything anyway.
This definitely was not the Darwin award.
Then our church called and wondered if we would donate half of a case to their charity auction.
I soon learned to take what I could get and be happy.
They were aghast when we told them we had to move.
They tested me to make sure I would not pass out going to the car and told my son Nick to take me.
It was capped off when my classmates raised the money to build us an accessible shower -it has been great for me as now only one person can give me a shower.
Only in Los Altos!
It felt great to be back in California.
Do not succomb to evil's questAnd ponder not on pain untoldFor gloomy, grey and deep sad thoughtsCan only lead to sorrow cold.
Without it I just dropped off everyone's radar screen; they might have thought of me, but I never knew it.
Mikala never missed a beat.
I start out in the dream state, where everything is functional.
posted by hevans at 6:21 PM 1 commentsCHAPTER 10 BACK HOME!
After a while you realize that arguing is pointless, so you tend to get more passive with time.
That only happened once.
I had no idea how to build it.
The doctors checked me out and decided it was a migraine.
Those same people get mad AT YOU later when they figure out their lives could have been made easier if you had spoken up.
The air was quite dry and had the familiar smell of Eucalyptus.
People also get tired of using the Board, so little niceties often go unsaid, leading people to think of you differently.
Once I inadvertently urinated on my computer and shorted it out.
Basically, my body was in excellent shape because I had been a health nut, and I just did not need much sleep after lying in bed all day.
When that failed she reached down my throat and gagged me until I cleared the obstruction.
 It also made me feel a bit more human.
After we got back, the local TV station interviewed us, which was fun.
She had taken lifesaving for a babysitter course, and calmed everybody down.
He listened to my ideas, then said it sounded like a good project for his robotics class.
Treasure every minute.
The reporter was very nice and the interview lasted three hours.
 It seems to me that religion and science continually struggle to answer these questions, and will never converge.
But we have gotten accustomed to it - especially Mikala and Mike.
We hired a handyman to fix everything, which he did.
More on that later.
I learned another painful truth - what I used to do in a few minutes now could take weeks or years, if it got done at all.
It is not that she is a bad driver - to the contrary, she is an excellent driver.
If you ever start to take life for granted, don't.
We also found that a bunch of mice had moved in.
They treat you as if you don't exist, or are addled.
Now, I have to wait for an opportune time to ask someone to do it- that is, when I am near the wood and they have time to use the Board.
Think then not of foregone griefOr of the past days' lonely grip,For each new dawn is golden joyWhich sweetens sadness with a sip.
The basic truth is, I have no choice.
We watched the news that night, and sure enough, there she was.
It didn't really matter; it was probably time for them to leave anyway.
About this time the speech therapist recommended I go to Missoula to Montech to see the equipment they had for disabled people.
We decided to go best 3 out of 5 games.
I had started to eat solid food and the OT, Margaret Dougherty, set me up so I could feed myself.
Another handy sign is to indicate when you didn't hear the question - there's nothing like someone mumbling a question you don't understand, and then demanding an answer, to make you look mentally challenged.
Then it turned out the house was listed for sale.
Luckily, we lived pretty simply and still had most of the money to mail them.
We all agreed, and I started outlining it.
Then we got the news, good and bad.
Then they must have gotten burned out, because after awhile we stopped hearing from them regularly.
It is up to the family to work things out.
Never mind that my life might have been in the balance.
 ' The choice is clear - either starve or stop complaining.
When I got home, I wouldn't give up on it.
That is the problem with thinking you know everything - they didn't themselves the opportunity to learn anything new.
Two months before we were to move back to California, he lied to us and said he was retiring to his lake house and needed us out immediately.
They said, 'Good to hear from you, glad things are improving, we will resume therapy two days a week.
One of the first things we did was have one of our traditional crab boils.
Lability is caused when the stroke takes away your emotional control.
At first I was unenthusiastic, but agreed to go.
One neat thing we did back in Montana was go fishing.
Remember how days seemed to last forever when we were kids because everything was new to us?
It has made me reflect.
This gives the impression that when I don't, it is because I don't want to.
Every morning, I get yelled at to open my mouth, as if I don't know to try.
Probably the biggest thing that happened was I gained some volitional control over my diaphragm so that I could make a quiet noise when asked.
 Now imagine the smallest distance we have measured, the size of some subatomic particle, versus the largest; the distance across the universe, measured in lightyears.
Eventually I wake up and realize I can't scratch the itch.
She came towards me waving her arms and shouting,  Henry, do you remember me?
I got a partially reprieve from the Board after a class reunion.
While on the one hand the Board keeps me from being a vegetable, it is also very tedious and drives everyone, including me, crazy.
They tried to call us about five am to pick him up but luckily our phone was out so we slept through this stupidity.
About a month later I woke up in the middle of the night with spasms - my fever was 105.
I decided to have some fun, and told all the therapists about it, and to give Emma plenty of s___ about it.
It was in not knowing anyone who knew how I had been.
The help usually comes from unexpected places.
Shortly after the trip Emma decided to go home.
Then he decided to pretend it was four wheel drive and pretty much trashed it going off-road.
To make the best of it and to preserve my sanity, we focused our energies on the cookbook.
So do I, but whereas they can walk out of the room or pretend not to see my gestures, I cannot escape.
It was mostly about the wheelchair everyone had rigged up so I could ambulate and talk at the same time, using mainly head movements to control my wheelchair.
Great.
What we needed was help with a bewildered boy whose world had been torn apart.
This, together with the fact that both of our neighbors were selling and bringing by lots of buyers, resulted in our getting a few pretty good unsolicited offers.
I have had complete strangers get fascinated with the Board and just pick it up and start conversing with me, no problem.
We just called an exterminator, and soon we had the house to ourselves.
The whole process might take a month or more.
I don't know what it is, but it took some getting used to.
Some people are intimated by the Board - they think it is an IQ test and are afraid they will look stupid.
Some other friends of ours agreed to take him, and we decided to send him back.
MIT went extremely well, and they even gave us an award for inspiration, and named the annual award after our family.
Although the original family that had promised to take Nick backed down when they realized we were actually going to take them up on it, another family stepped up.
Yes, I remember you!
Luckily, most people were at least encouraging and saw us through the most difficult times.
Anyone who thinks you can talk to kids through a spelling board just has not tried it.
She discovered that the boys liked to sneak out of the window to do things we would not have allowed.
 At first Jane was puzzled.
Meanwhile, therapy was going pretty well.
All in all, it was nice to be back in California.
The odds must have been infinitesimal, particularly since I was in such good shape.
It seems no one wanted to take a chance on an old American car.
People trained in healthcare are most likely to help, because they know what I'm going through, but even they don't all get it.
 One hot summer night he got bored and decided to take a plywood cow from someone's lawn.
To normal people this is not a problem, if it is urgent they just pick up the phone.
About that time our California renters announced they were leaving December 31.
Hopefully it won't be like that - Jane and I are fighters.
Although the Board, because my wife is so good, is often as fast, the independence of this thing is great.
It still ran.
And nobody tried, or probably could have, to help us with parenting.
My limbs are still partially wired - I have a little movement in all of them, very little.
For me, it starts every day at daybreak.
It brought back a lot of memories because I used to go there early in the morning, drink coffee and watch the deer play.
She kind of liked the control that came with a manual wheelchair.
If you do try to show emotion through capitalization and punctuation, and people don't agree with you, they don't argue back.
Instead, we got the impression that those people in San Jose did not know what they were doing, like when they tried to tell Jane I would never move.
The boys quickly went nuts with cars.
People in restaurants even recognized me - I was famous for a day in Kalispell, Montana!
The listener often just puts down the Board to pay attention to the other conversation.
I'm sure anyone who has raised teenage boys can relate.
We were lucky Elaine came along when she did, because the kids were in school.
The first thing I did was to email the hospital in San Jose to see if this development would give them a better attitude.
That fall, we had found out we were entitled to another $15,000 of California state disability, but the state had kept it because we had not known to fill out some piece of paper (while we were occupied fighting not to get discharged early).
It was only $2,200 total, but we had had enough and decided to fight.
Not me.
We attributed the boy's actions that night to a malady known to afflict teenage boys;  SAS,  or  Sudden Acute Stupidity.
Keeping my self esteem up is sometimes hard (although that is always a fleeting phenomenon with me).
We still use that idea, with some modifications, to this day.
Some guy from Tracy almost bought it, so we had my brother out there try to sell it.
Some people can't even do this much.
Instead, I get to spend half an hour driving around.
For me the trip was bittersweet; seeing everyone was great, but I knew it would be over soon and we would have to go back.
His family had decided to spend a week there, as had his relatives, and they asked us to move out for the summer.
Like why do some species stop evolving -Cockroach - while others keep going -man>?
One of the things I did to alleviate boredom was to play Scrabble.
Unless they are willing to use the Board, they misunderstand - often yes or no isn't enough.
In this way I can avoid serious injury in the long run.
My link with the outside world, including California, was email (that is still the case).
This must happen a lot, because the judge was very sympathetic, gave us the money and wished us well.
It was no fun.
The police pulled them over for not having any taillights and ended up impounding the vehicle.
He immediately recognized the gravity of me losing vision, and assured me he could reattach my retina as soon as the bladder infection subsided.
When they asked Jane a question, Mikala, then all of ten years old, swept Jane aside and said,  Mom, I'll handle this,  and took over the interview.
We figured if it didn't work out for one reason or another, that we could always move somewhere else.
It helped that our caregiver, Emma, had decided to come with us for awhile.
It can change in a second.
There's something about the words   Free stuff   that brings out the irrational side of everyone.
What I really craved was action of any type - bedbathes, rubdowns, anything.
Who knows what Genesis means by 'day's?
They apparently had pulled my eyeball out of my head, secured a band around it, and reattached the retina with a laser.
They get tired of it.
Another thing that was nice there was the proximity to the ski runs.
The family that backed down at least tried to help Nick academically.
We ended up throwing most of them away.
Not that she always agrees with me, but that's something else entirely.
I also see the world as if I can still effect change, but, of course, I cannot.
I didn't die from my stroke, but I ceased being an active parent.
I wanted to sue them but everyone thought it would be too much trouble.
 What will follow?
Speaking of no fun brings up the subject of lability (not liability).
I was confined to bed, so they just brought the party to me, and we had a blast.
Some people who used email got to know me a little, but it still was not the same.
I am convinced that she greatly prolongs my life, and that I would soon die without her.
Thus, we had yet another big decision to make.
It is just tough luck when a stroke like mine occurs - no one else picks up the pieces, at least not for very long.
A friend offered to be my interpreter and we went to court.
This happened to Nick when some guy, speeding in a school zone, rearended him in the car he had bought with dishwashing money, and totaled Nick's car.
At first it was amazing but we soon learned that it was so complicated we needed to hire a technician to make a phone call.
A really bizarre thing happens when an itch wakes me up.
He assured us it wasn't that bad-until they finished it off with sledgehammers for fun.
One was a good friend of Jane's for many years.
Steven would take a ski-shuttle every weekend - it was only a few minutes away.
It does catch you off guard and make you not trust anybody.
Great-like we didn't have enough going on!
When the fingers of fog drift in it's pretty spectacular.
NursesThe nurses who took care of me were interesting because they didn't know me beforehand and they were the first group to treat me like an invalid.
To me, however, it feels like,  Shut up - I don't care if it is important - I will decide if I feel like answering.
We were woken up at about three by a phone call from the police.
I am not defending chemical euthanasia; I am just annoyed by all of the hypocrisy.
Then, I had to get the parts.
I asked her how it felt to lose to a mute quadriplegic.
Another common mistake is adding or dropping a letter or word and completely changing what I am saying.
About this time Jerry and Elaine decided to leave, even though they had committed to staying for a year.
 Generally, though, she is unbelievably understanding.
If they add, drop or misconstrue a word, they never remember doing it and blame ME when it doesn't make sense, even though it was THEIR fault.
It was a lot of work to go anywhere.
Without the art of communication, my reality existed only in my head.
I told Jane I loved her and prepared for the worst, even though I felt okay.
I don't know what we were thinking.
My speech therapist's husband rigged up the chair with a power inverter, a USB hub and a place to plug in my special mouse.
 'Physically, it is a 12  by 12  piece of Plexiglas with all 26 letters and all 10 digits stenciled on it.
One of her ex-husbands was a landlord, and knew the law inside and out.
 On the positive side, they had no DME limits, unlike Blue Cross, who would not even cover my wheelchair.
Powerlessness goes hand in hand with being disabled.
I used to cry or laugh fifty times a day, including a few times a day over having left my life in California.
We read in the paper that Bigfork schools were good, so we looked for a home there.
A few days later we got another nice surprise - Social Security said they screwed up and had forgotten to pay us $20,000 for our kids, and did.
The blog is different because no matter how long it takes us to write, a normal person can read it at normal speed.
They ruined his sleep that night, taking him down to San Jose and booking him.
Meals can take two hours!
One day it hit -30 F and Jane called to see if the kids' school was closed.
We helped Steven get a nice little used Toyota pick-up.
I was very weak for a couple weeks but slowly recovered.
They had two boys who looked like brothers; could we come <45 minutes away > and get them?
I was complaining so much about institutional food that my speech therapist suggested she, Jerry and I all write a cookbook together.
First, I lost the case manager at Blue Cross who had been so supportive - they had ended up paying for two years of therapy.
One night the boys were shooting off fireworks with some friends < legally >, when they decided to climb a mud cliff for more elevation.
The hospital in Montana was better - they told the local paper we would make a good Thanksgiving story.
We had no permanent home, a few days to find a school for all four kids, no permanent mailing address, and very few frends around.
Mike went through an adjustment period but soon fit right in.
I asked for therapy every day because it obviously made a big difference.
Some actually help, either her by giving time or money.
If you have a normal IQ you MIGHT be good at the Board, although if you have a low IQ you don't stand a chance.
If youre interested in knowing when we've added a new posting, you can use Bloglines.
is not unheard of - that is about eight or ten hours of lying there doing nothing.
KidsTrying to raise kids as a mute quadriplegic is a joke.
I was unhurt, and Emma made me comfortable.
One of the things it got was the Cyclatone.
I, of course, could neither prevent nor rectify it.
The younger two kids were still pretty adaptable.
It is very slow.
Nothing.
Remember, EVERYONE in Montana has at least one pellet gun, and we lived next to public land.
They say the passage of time is relative, and after what I have been through, I couldn't agree more.
The driveway was steep, and as she neared the bottom Jane hit the brakes.
Jane wanted to take it but I was mad.
The more change you allow (Or, as in my case, is thrust upon you), the longer life seems; and the more of a routine you follow, the faster time seems to fly.
Just try lying perfectly still for a couple days without talking to see what it is like.
Fortunately, he was also pretty handy and was able to fix the Cyclatone.
If you go to the far end of the spectrum, to complete strangers, it is often worse.
You have to choose words very carefully because people often misconstrue them.
I was pretty adamant about it, and Jane finally gave in.
The drugs knocked me out so that I could only sit up a few minutes.
 So what?
By the time the 'pro' could look at me, another black curtain was forming.
When I lived, it was amazing to us how few people actually seemed to care.
This was really helpful, because it served as a form of release, which I desperately needed.
It has become such a pattern that now, when people promise us things, we just smile and thank them, and don't even pay much attention to what they say.
A simple question and awnswer may take days, a whole conversation weeks while your wait for responses.
He had it on the market for over six months, marking it down from ten to six thousand with no takers.
We were promised tuition for our kids, help with my salary, and many other things, none of which materialized.
However, the rehabilitation doctor was excellent - just as good as the one in Montana, whom we had really liked.
I wanted to have it done before I had to focus on therapy again.
For this reason I am pretty dependent on my family.
It turned out I had felt bad because, besides being constipated, I had a blood clot in my right arm.
They actually did a good job, although some of the color choices made Jane cry.
We rented it to an unmarried couple.
Shortly thereafter, another friend, Katie Roper, told the local press told the paper about vineyard, and they were very taken by our story.
It was called the Dynavox and was essentially a mobile speech computer.
She came right hom, hitting the fence behind our house to stop.
We feared another stroke and called the ambulance.
They are born, know their parents briefly, and spend what must seem like endless days learning about their world before they die.
posted by hevans at 6:15 PM 2 commentsCHAPTER 6 OUR FIRST WINTERThings actually started off pretty well.
A lot of people treated me like I had died, paying their respects and then disappearing.
Realize that this was Montana and everyone has guns.
The bad news was that we couldn't move into the new house until after school started.
Then about two weeks later, the main winemaker, Mike Martella, said they wanted to plant a couple rows for me so I would at least have a mini vineyard.
Instead they took the easy way out and ran the other way.
And if that is not bad enough, if I don't lie there with my mouth shut AND look her in the eye, I pay dearly!
that is when she tells people the stroke affected my brain.
 The biblical accounts of Creation, are very vague, even if they have a grain of truth.
 And how time flies now that we have established routines?
One of my most frustrating things has to do with my wit.
He finally operated on me under general anasthetic.
Perhaps this endless struggle defines existence; certainly The Inquisition put as much weight on the questions of the day as we do on today's questions.
We had hired a gardener in our absence but I guess he had decided that he only had to trim a small part of the lawn.
It portended things to come.
Luckily the judge let us call in.
At least these therapists were straight with me, and enabled us to plan our lives.
A little girl was bravely manglng the 'Star Spangled Banner, ' and everyone was pretending it was pretty good, as they often do at such events (I used to misquote Winston Churchill and say that ' Never have so many clapped so long for so little ').
It was not a threat to my heart or brain, but could have damaged my lungs.
So was my primary care physician - and he really took a real interest in me.
We heard later that they were breaking up, which may have had something to do with it.
 Or have we forgotten how important yesterday's questions were, like, does the sun really revolve around the earth, and why can't man fly?
I made a point of rubbing it in to my daughter, who loves publicity.
It was an ominous sign.
There is no reason to believe those represent endpoints-why couldn't we be just be a subatomic particle ourselves in a much larger reality?
It was always about what they wanted and never about what I needed.
Email became my escape and separate little world; when my computer broke I overreacted, feeling lost and isolated - often it was the only way I could express complex thoughts.
Another technology which works very well for me is email, because even though it may take me and my family hours to write, to the reader it looks like any other text.
The trip started on an ominous note.
What kid wouldn't want to be able to flip a switch and shut up their Dad?
I then exercise or sit at my computer for a couple hours (more results in bad posture), before they feed me dinner and then put me back to be, where I watch whatever is on TV until I fall asleep again.
Typing with the head tracker does afford me the luxury of more complex thought, but it is nonetheless a terrible medium for urgency since it is inherently two dimensional.
We took it because we really did not have any choice, provided they would build a wheelchair ramp.
I need constant adjustments to sit in my chair, and any nursing home would just leave me in bed, where I would soon get pneumonia because lying down does that to you.
In fact, she loved it- so much so that they were a little possessive.
Occasionally someone will actually see me as a human being and talk TO me.
The note freaked him out and he withdrew from the book.
Based on this, we paid a thousand dollars to have it hauled up there.
That is usually a mistake with Jane.
For the boys that was a shock -Steven had gotten a scholarship into the college preparatory school of his dreams, and Nick was about to start Eighth grade with his friends.
 Well, it doesn't take the Earth a shorter period of time to orbit the sun, but our PERCEPTION has changed.
Jane interrupted what she was doing and came home and called the fire department.
People are opposed to active euthanasia because it requires action on their part and implicates THEM; however they are perfectly happy to let someone die of neglect and say it is just 'nature taking its course,' even though neglect is usually more painful than chemical euthanasia.
When I ask for the Board to explain what I mean, they refuse to hold it up, saying, 'C'mon, Daddy, either you want more food or you don't.
However, some friends pointed out that it was right across the street from a bar and not a good place for kids.
He was not hurt.
It made no sense - I had heard them complaining about revenue shortfalls, and yet they did not want me.
Back in California, the real estate market was heating up.
Second, it is like someone just cut most of the control wires.
First, I had to find someone actually interested in doing it.
Jane called Elaine, but she didn't come down, so Jane managed to get me back in bed with the kids' help.
My own therapy went pretty well - we started at the hospital where I originally was in the ICU.
FriendsIt takes a tragedy to really find out who your friends are.
Jane wanted a vegetable garden, so we made that part of the plan.
Suffice it to say housing in Montana was a nightmare; we had to move seven times in two years.
We took a break from therapy for awhile and then went to a new hospital.
I thought airfare was included until two weeks before the trip.
Somehow I manage to upset her.
He made a big mistake - the judge handed him his head.
We rented it on the spot, just in time to register the kids for school.
That kind of thing keeps us going because it feels good to share our story with other people.
My Occupational Therapist, Denise Zander, and her machinist husband raised the seat and put on straps for my feet.
I felt terrible because they essentially lost their father, almost before they could remember me.
Jane said I couldn't sit up so he suggested she have the ambulance take me to the ER.
When the sheriff brought him home about five thirty am, the police solemnly reported that they had had two detectives working on the 'cow case' all night.
They took me to a car museum, through a gold mine and on a boat ride.
Back home, a medical equipment vendor fitted it with a head array, so I could drive with my head.
As it grew, so did our lives.
One of the things I really missed was putzing around the house.
I told his sister,  Look what I have to look forward to.
Anyway, we hooked a fifteen pounder, but he got away.
Luckily we have a lot of friends.
What I am really trying to do is save them more trouble later, almost as if the legs aren't mine but I know what will happen if they don't cover them RIGHT NOW.
We decided that other people were much better to spend time with and never tried to figure out what happened.
I almost laughed - these were the same policemen who had refused to investigate our stolen car for a week!
Actually coming back to the Bay Area was kind of strange.
That night, both boys went to bed early.
They did recognize me at the graduation, which was nice.
Six months later it was still sitting there, marked down to six thousand.
I have even watched as people tried to take advantage of us.
The first time this happened, it freaked me out.
Meanwhile, I had to lie with my head still, for two days .
I'm sorry, but coming from someone who controlled his urge to eat and lost fifty pounds, and then learned to breathe well enough that they removed my tracheotomy, I don't buy it.
By the time she was through with him the cop could have walked out under the door.
That begs the question, how far can you stretch time/space?
Email also deprives the listener of any non-written feedback.
The grade school was pretty good, and had advanced programs our two little kids got into.
Sometimes living takes on shadesOf amber brown and cloudy skies,But know that when the sun 'gain dawns,You'll see the world with clear bright eyes.
I thought about my old friends everyday.
Everyone turned around to see a guy in a wheelchair, with his whole family trying to stuff towels in his mouth.
posted by hevans at 6:17 PM 0 commentsCHAPTER 7 ON THE ROAD AGAINOnce again, they began by showing us a trailer.
Oh, perhaps the order is right, but certainly the meaning of 'day' is not one Earth orbit around the sun.
First of all, everything feels very heavy, almost as if I were glued down.
Never mind what I WANT to help with - I can't.
we even braved a trip to Colorado for a family reunion.
We decided to keep going, at least on the sideyard.
The Hoyer lift is a small hoist that lifts you up like a storks carrying a baby.
He then went to spend the night at a friend's house.
People don't want to spell out 'please' and 'thank you' constantly, so you learn to omit them.
Sometime about then, I went to a class reunion, and Allyson Campa wrote a blurb about me in the class newsletter.
Now I still wake most days at the crack of dawn, but I have to watch what I can see through the window because I can't begin to get myself out of bed.
Montech is funded by the Federal Government by a program designed to help the disabled in rural areas.
Since all I can do without help is lie in bed and eventually die from pneumonia, I NEED others to help me get up and do everything for me, and that is eventually viewed as selfish.
This other thing is more important.
Remember; they thought the sun revolved around the Earth then.
With the help of some old friends, Barb and Don Tate, we loaded up a truck for the seventh time in two years (and the last time for awhile), and headed home to California!
The only difference is, I had no choice and no way out.
The children were a bit rambunctious for Elaine (who had never had boys), and refused to eat some of Jerry's vegetarian meals.
What really brought it all home to me, was when a quadriplegic I had gotten to know died of pneumonia.
They like to have their heads rubbed.
Nick asked him,  Why would I shoot your house?
A guy from another class saw it and emailled me that he could help.
That fact makes her plight much worse.
The good news was the guy in Missoula could fix my heart; the bad news was they had to keep me drugged up for two months until the blood thinner worked since the surgery could loosen blood clots.
The older boys, especially, lost an active father - their boyhoods ended abruptly when I had my stroke.
He was still able to flyfish and fly a plane.
I need so much help, that unless someone constantly pays attention to what my physical body needs, I often suffer.
She somehow managed to get all of his papers and began badgering him if he didn't get all A's.
The other guy was plain trying to take advantage of us.
No counselor was patient enough to hear my story.
Just as we were starting to feel like Christmas had come early, our disability company wrote us a nasty little letter and said they were entitled to the $35,000 due to some fine print in their policy, and oh, by the way, if we did not mail them the whole amount in thirty days they would stop my checks.
Once they learn, and it doesn't take them long, that they can shut you up by not getting the Board, all is lost!
The effect is to tell me (although it is not their conscious intention)  Shut up.
It began to get cold in September and soon it began to snow.
Some people actually treat you badly.
Imagine my surprise when she emailed the very next day and said she knew a family willing to help by getting tickets for our whole family!
In a way I felt like Tom Sawyer listening to my own obituaries - it was fun, but when I lived it was somehow anti-climatic.
I have watched other young people have strokes that were not as bad as mine be left to die because their was no one in their life like Jane who cared enough to help them.
One good thing that came from our adventure in the hospital was they hooked us up with an agency that came to the house to help Jane.
If I get impatient, people either leave me alone and tell me to do it myself (which I obviously can't) or, if they are medical, they have a doctor inject me to calm me down.
If people get tired of them, they put them in a room and leave.
This had several ramifications.
One night he called to say he had rolled it going around a corner.
It takes a special kind of person to live with you twenty four hours a day, and to stay positive most of the time.
I knew that he had been wanting to remodel since before we came along.
For example, they might say,  Do you want more food, yes or no?
One of the most difficult things was sitting on the commode chair and going to the bathroom, because the suppository made all my muscles stiffen.
Before we even got a chance to move into the new rental house, THE BIG SETBACK happened.
The thing is a royal pain in the neck.
Let's say I was in my wheelchair and my attendant got busy.
Some days we go into town for therapy or to shop.
The second guy thought my retina was detaching.
In the wit game, timing is everything, so I usually just keep it to myself and laugh at my own jokes.
In some ways, I hope it never does.
There must be something about being disabled that makes people promise you things they never deliver, just try to make you happy.
At first, people forget I can only answer yes/no questions.
The judge gave Nick about twice what the insurance company had offered him.
I think to myself, just reach up there and scratch it.
After surgery, I was still weak.
Never mind what I think.
Therapy was going well, although the pace of progress slowed down.
I don't know what would have happened if she hadn't done that - I couldn't clear it and was barely breathing.
After spending all that time fixing the place up.
It meant driving 24 hours one way, and then finding a place to stay.
Work out a signal for 'I don't know'- which is often the case in a yes/no question.
It takes a lot of people helping to make a difference.
Meanwhile, relations with the crazy neighbor and his friend, our landlord, continued to simmer.
It turned out Stephen didn't want to spend money to fix the brakes, instead downshifting and then using the e-brake to stop.
We asked for a rent abatement.
While lying there I couldn't help but think about evolution and the passage of time.
The helper brought a friend who did gardening for us.
Some friends of ours took care of the cooking.
It seemed like we had to make a terrible decision every week.
All we knew was that we almost had a medical emergency.
Speaking of close calls, not long after she started, Emma tried to transfer me herself, and I ended up on the floor.
We were in no position to argue; we had no place to go and Jane didn't have time to fight it; she was trying to take care of me and the kids.
People often just ignore me and treat me as if I were addled.
I was sorry when it ended.
I can never look at someone's face and judge their reaction, or if they even took my email the right way.
All ideas lay dormant until I returned to California, and an old friend, Chris Tacklind, visited.
This gives you the appearance of ungratefully barking out orders all of the time.
It is pretty obvious to me that passive euthanasia not only exists but is well accepted by our society.
She had to drive Mikala to school early one day, and discovered she had locked her keys in the van.
Sometimes, however, it can be pretty funny.
When we were trying to decide whether to stay in Montana, she offered to take in Nick in case we stayed past Christmas, so he could graduate with his class.
A friend let us stay at her place, which worked out great.
it is often my only choiceposted by hevans at 6:26 PM 47 commentsCHAPTER 13 THE FRUSTRATIONS OF BEING DISABLEDFor a disabled person, it is never a question of IF you are frustrated, but how badly.
When first using a Board, there are several tricks.
It is maddening, but I can't do anything.
That helped everybody (although it was not as funny ).
Nick was best friends with her son.
Before I could nod, I blinked, which was even slower.
Another disadvantage is anger - write an angry email and the other personnel is not likely to answer, depriving me of the satisfaction of even having a good argument.
Then they asked us to empty the last bedroom so they could use it.
Jane held up very well, all things considered.
People treat you as helpless, which of course you are.
At night my legs would spasm and pull up, which was very uncomfortable.
The family that did take him in found him somewhat confused (no surprise after what he had been through) and difficult to talk to, but they managed to keep him the whole time and kept open communications with us.
As I was leaving my bowels let go and the nurse had to help me.
I guess the best way for me to summarize what it is like to be mute and quadriplegic is to think of a dog.
He didn't need this and said something to her.
One good thing that came out of this was that Jane learned a new parenting trick.
They had a device for people like me that operated without my wife's continuous help.
Some try actively to take advantage of us while I am watching.
Hey, you are lucky to even get your point across.
Everything seemed very arid compared to Montana.
He just liked to blame us for everything bad that happened because I couldn't get in his face.
We reluctantly agreed - finding tenants from Montana was not easy.
It turned out to belong to some nut who chased the boys home with a shotgun.
We used it to get a standing frame, a mat, a power bike, and many miscellaneous items.
I stare at the group of letters that contains the one I want.
Which brings up the medical equipment fund a family set up for me.
Email elongates time dramatically.
posted by hevans at 6:12 PM 0 commentsMonday, July 24, 2006IT COULD HAPPEN TO ANYONE
Then she realized the boys had snuck out of the window and taken the truck to a drive-in.
That earned me another ambulance ride.
She just decided that nobody from her family would ever talk to anyone from our family again.
It was also nice to see friendly faces again - people who knew me before the stroke.
After what we had been through as a family, though, nothing scared us anymore.
The doctor said he got 'most' of the problem; then my heart swelled up and he had to stop.
Another thing that disappears when you go mute is any type of 'presence' you may have had.
They laughed and said it was a city problem; that if we didn't pay rent we could leave.
I thought it would be a fitting way to end this chapter:HopeWhen gray light spreads its heavy gloomUpon your worn and weary face;When the path ahead is long and steepAnd your spirit wants a slower pace;When your feet can't follow one another,When your soul has reach'ed dark despair;Fall not into the hand of darknessThink not the thought that no one cares.
Religion maintains that we are unique and at least momentarily finite, while science refuses to acknowledge anything that can't be routinely repeated.
They kind of forgot to mention how much work it was to set up.
They have no way of knowing you just couldn't hear the question.
A classmate, Allyson Campa, wrote about me afterwards.
Email became my best way to stay in touch with people, and I kind of lost it whenever my computer broke.
It would wake me up several times a night, and I had to wake Jane to straighten me out.
They appear to be selfish to me, although all they are just doing what they want to do.
I still wake up and have to remind myself that it happened, because it is so weird.
I just wanted to show him not to let himself get pushed around, even if he gets disabled.
The kids were mixed - Steve and Mike had good friends in Montana, Nick was indifferent, and Mikala was philosophical - she said no matter where she was she would miss the people she wasn't with, and enjoy the people she WAS with.
Luckily my van has a bed, like an ambulance, and Nick was able to lift me in.
Then in late May he had the rental company tell us he had changed his mind.
Another everyday problem surfaced when we opened the front door.
I then have to wait for another opportune time and try again, until I get lucky.
She refused immediate medical treatment and we drove off, with one of the boys driving her car so she could sleep.
Most people express concern but don't actually DO anything.
Otherwise no.
My speech therapist was pretty feisty and thought she was pretty good at Scrabble.
Certain things are very fickle, and only work sporadically, beyond your control.
 Once we answer these questions will the questions stop?
It is exhausting for everyone, including the person crying or laughing.
The drive went from very built-up to rural.
Her gutless family agreed.
My favorite thing is to take my electric wheelchair and speaking device into Costco or Home Depot and just look around.
When I realize someone wants to ignore me, I usually just zone them out or imagine what it would be like if the tables were turned.
They only knew me as a mute quadriplegic.
In Montana, my brother had always made sure I got excellent medical care, and we didn't have such connections in California.
We also discovered a simple thing that really changed our lives.
Only my eyelids were not affected.
So we welcomed in the New Year knowing that we didn't have a caregiver, and only had one son left who was big enough to help Jane transfer me.
This was the case when I had my definitive CATscan.
But that is pretty rare.
People don't like to be told what to do, and writing is a terrible medium for urgency.
We are used to thinking of some animals as having very short - say a year - lifespans.
Although we weren't sure that was a good idea, we needed the help.
What part of tracheotomy don't they understand?
We redesigned the gardens and had a fence built.
It goes like this.
After a week's rest at home we went to Lake Tahoe in California for a family reunion.
Simply subscribe to the blogs you're interested in, and Bloglines will tell you when there are new articles available to read.
Unbeknownst to him, he had sustained a serious neck injury playing football, and then snapped it completely in a skiing accident.
When I said I would think about it, he called Jane and said there was nothing to think about - they had already done it.
In reality, many people had been extremely good to us.
What is most frustrating is the lack of choice we had.
Not that it had slipped my mind.
When I got sick, she offered to watch the kids.
We also lived by some public property where there were old cars, empty beer bottles and shell casings.
It is slow but allows me to talk directly to people without my wife interpreting.
About a year later MIT invited me to Boston to demonstrate what the team had invented.
It soon became obvious that she liked the house more than he did.
It allowed me to move all four limbs at the same time, greatly reducing my dependence on a caregiver.
Love me or hate me, people often commented on how quick my wit was.
If they don't want to hear what I'm saying, they take away the Board.
In this case, Don mowed the lawn and that was the end of it.
Another thing that bugs me is how my wife parks.
Luckily it was only a few weeks.
We also had fun on the Fourth of July.
I thought I was in the ECU for months; it turned out to be just 22 days, much of which I spent in a coma.
Some people gave me the sympathy vote; others played hardball and voted against me because the odds made it a good bet.
This concludes our chronological history, at least for now.
Jane didn't know about any of this and luckily didn't hit anyone.
The High School was a big letdown - the first thing they told the boys was that C's were good grades.
No one devotes time to me consistently like Jane, my wife.
We only invited family - my brother's and Jane's twin sister's.
With it, I am always free to convey my thoughts.
Some friends of ours fixed it up and we put it on the market.
A few months passed, and then Chris announced that they not only had a solution, but they had gotten funding from MIT to prototype it.
She will circle a parking lot endlessly, looking for such a spot.
We always had a pretty good relationship by any objective measure but nothing tests the promise 'Til death do us part' like being put in a crucible like this.
Dynavox also did a short film on us-we got to be movie stars for a day!
Above all, what constantly eats me up is, why me?
The computer guy laughed and said  it is a keyboard, not a PEEboard.
Eat brunch - I call it that because eating both takes too long.
If it doesn't exist, she will launch into a tirade about the store.
One of the more disgusting things I have to endure has to do with kids and food.
Other people never catch on.
That scored some points with her!
I protested mightily, but to no avail.
We traded serious problems like where we were going to live for the day-to-day hassles of ordinary life.
Somehow the pot mysteriously disappeared, but I didn't care.
They demanded $2,200, and he said we WANTED to sue them anyway.
It is not easy to use for the translator.
We also tried taking the family to counseling but the counselors didn't seem to know which direction to take and it was too much trouble to go.
One day I was a 6'4 , 200 Lb.
We found that, at first, the people we had been the closest to most recently did the most for us.
There are a lot of disadvantages to using email to talk, but it is better than being a complete vegetable.
We called the motel but they said they weren't responsible since Emma had initially refused treatment.
The translator calls them out until I hear the one I want, at which point I nod.
Only about ten percent of emails get answered.
They said to get it, we would have to appear in court in San Jose.
 I had not been able to go to the bathroom in a week and I was constipated.
They assumed it was part of the public land behind our house.
Such is the nature of kids - they just naturally adapt.
My wife was one of the few people I see everyday who actually takes the time to figure out my point of view.
We couldn't tell if it was because we went ahead on the cookbook without Jerry, or, if it was, as they said, because of the children.
One of our biggest fears was also allayed soon thereafter.
Either that or he didn't want to be late for dinner.
You are welcome to disseminate this for free.
Instead of writing he had been sitting alone in his room watching football.
No matter how you answer you might be misunderstood.
The first agent showed us a place with five steps, but the second agent was a little smarter.
One more thing about friends.
Then the logical part of my brain begins to wake up and tries to convince the dream side I am paralyzed.
Few individuals have distinguished themselves by coming immediately to mind.
The translator then holds it up between us so I can see all the letters.
One day we got a note asking for a couple hundred dollars to repair a bullet hole in his house.
As if to purposely torture me, they first stuff their own face and tell me how good it is.
Out of desperation I called another friend who often did school fundraisers and asked for help.
Being quadriplegic and mute pretty much reduces you to being treated like an animal by most people.
One day I woke up and couldn't see well.
Their behavior is shaped by obeying orderS to get treats.
When we saw it, we were aghast - it was a total loss.
The lesson in all of this was that time was suddenly greatly expanded.
It is tough communicating with my wife at times, too.
In any event, we were ready to party.
 Above all, if we are just the product of some cosmic accident, why haven't the trillions of stars/solar systems in the universe produced many races like us?
Worse, after they start, the slightest little thing distracts them, and they ALWAYS find that more important than feeding me.
While I am on the subject of pet peeves, let me rant and rave a little.
Selfishness cuts both ways.
The reason is that people then think you can always do it and think that if they yell at you you will remember how.
Because we didn't get it in writing, they billed us for the wheelchair ramp.
They then play with my food before feeding me by hand.
One of the first things we had to do was get a more permanent roof over our heads.
For several months, we never got a full night's sleep, and it was showing.
I will never forget a nurse who had taken care of me there who later saw me in the cafeteria.
Every single thing I want done, I have to ask someone else to do and depend on them to do it.
No one there knew me as I had been, and often ignored me.
I would, to this day, literally die if someone weren't around to help me, 24 hours a day.
It was great to see familiar places again.
I also had really enjoyed being a Dad and felt like we all had been cheated.
I didn't, so they took me in.
I had been landscaping it right before my stroke.
The doctors wanted Jane there in case they needed to do somethinG.
Tellingly, this time it was viewed as no big deal because strange things have happened often enough to become almost commonplace.
More importantly, he was an imposing presence at about 250 lbs.
 And denied doing it.
It takes forever.
Finally, I had to watch it being done, because very few people follow directions.
A friend offered air miles, but they didn't end up working out.
They forget that you tried but nobody would use the Board.
When I shake my head 'no', they misinterpret it and ask me if I mean I don't want any more food.
I am not defending creationism; that seems even less plausible.
I did get one nice break during this time.
One thing that happens when you are as badly disabled as I am is that certain people try to take advantage of you and your family.
Unfortunately there is nothing you can do about it - if you show signs of being upset they just leave the room.
Bloglines is a free web-based tool that lets you read and keep up with all your news feeds and blogs from one central page.
As we entered the driveway I noticed that much of the grass was about three feet long.
The driving age in Montana is fifteen.
He had been going to finish eighth grade with the kids he went to kindergarten with.
The policeman was a real jerk, and treated us like we were guilty.
We do much the same thing - only we may know another generation .
Jane was wary of my new-found freedom, especially after I ran over some poor old man.
They decided it was not funny at all, and trained us on the use of the Hoyer lift.
About this time we decided to rent out our California house.
Some really nice neighbors invited us over, and the boys did their best to burn down their beautiful new house with armloads of fireworks.
They came and lifted my sorry butt back into the bed, no worse for the wear.
He listened to her, then told her he wanted to see me in his office.
First, make sure yes and no are clearly understood.
We ended our stay in Montana with a final newspaper article.
We now faced the question of whether to try to send him back for his last six months.
In Montana, they had to learn limits from the police instead - luckily they didn't get in any real trouble, just dumb stuff.
A picture is worth a thousand words, especially when you have to use a letter board.
That is why I was so gratified to win with Nick in small claims court when he was rear-ended.
We came through the East Bay, then across 92 and the Bay Bridge to Skyline.
 What role does religion play?
They would just leave, regardless of what I needed.
Emma got up early to work out.
Perhaps the worst thing I can do is move something once when asked, especially under special circumstances, like therapy.
We tied a bedsheet from one rail to the other, just above my knees.
Remember when I said Nick had a penchant for getting caught for doing stupid things?
To pass time, when TV gets old, I have perfected the art of daydreaming.
Jane finally could get a full night's sleep.
If I got too excited because of frustration, the doctors just inject me with morphine until I quiet down, because that is generally easier for them than to figure out what is frustrating me (they don't do it to be mean).
Then my son Mike, who by this time had began to take my chewing for granted, popped a chicken nugget in the middle of my tongue.
