so you prefer to eat at home or eat out.
right  mm that's good.
and um  i'd um i'd buy the vitamins but then i forget to take 'em.
yeah they're her companions right now aren't they  i don't know i think she'd get rid of the house before she got rid of the dogs.
to different spots where news is happening and give like a.
yeah yeah.
yeah they still kept once once you promise that it's technically against n._c._w._a. rules for division three to get scholarship athletic scholarship so.
so but i mean you're thirty one and how old is jimmy.
so i mean it just oh yeah i know that world i mean i it's vi- vicariously.
and um  you know i guess in terms of what the government the government can i think the best way to do it is to prosecute people but i think it's up to more of the society to  to curb this kind of behavior uh.
well wasn't weren't they talking about like the flu or the cold.
so i.
what changes we've made since nine eleven.
well that would apply then.
someone to that you can talk to you can listen to  do things together.
it was a disaster though uh it was raining it was cold there was no lilacs and.
yeah i think when you have to use um oh another person's um like defects or another person's shortcomings to get a laugh it's wrong.
not personally just sympathetically.
you you remember later.
do you.
he's er thirty two and i'm forty yeah he's he  yeah.
pretty close between this town and one town in texas is about the whole family.
do a little bit more work 'cause i spent a lot more time i mean i'm very happy that um i spent a lot of time like hanging out with friends and partying and cultivating relationships but i could have done a little bit more of what i was supposed to do in terms of academics.
so there's kind of a um  there's still kind of a false picture that can be created.
then they didn't have the laws.
yeah  yeah no.
uh likewise um.
that's right that's the truth.
yeah that is what i think too.
you're in school.
um where you take the rice and you in it.
and she has a pretty tough background her parents pretty much abandoned her early on and she lived with her grandparents and when her grandparents died she lisure they can.
so  we don't have so much contact with that side of the family we we talk to them occasionally but it's mostly my mother's side.
yeah this i don't know either.
there were two kids in my class who had single mothers and it just seemed so strange at the time you know it just it just seemed like they were like from anothei guess it comes on and tells us it's been ten minutes.
yeah twenty five years ago i moved to florida but i still can't get rid of the accent.
yeah well you had said that but were there any other questions that they had asked us to discuss that you can remember.
nah it doesn't quite it doesn't quite work the same.
yeah he smokes at paul mall  they're oh boy they were they were those are horrible.
I yeah i'm in college now i uh it's a community college.
she well i guess during the earthquake she decided that you know she wanted to get the hell out of there and she  jumped over the balcony and started climbing up the building i mean that's not we actually lived on the second floor at the time so she was.
and uh i'm sh- their poor children that have to live with that oh my god oh that's so sad well i just hope we never have to go through something like that.
that were also ah in college with me i i played ball in college so  one of my friends was a um  was a guy i played ball with back in my home town so.
yeah i mean it's it's really who you know and um family members bring in the fathers will bring in their sons to those factories and sometimes it's third or fourth generation isn't it.
serious- no i went to i was actually in africa ah  right before september eleventh in in  july of that year.
do they yeah i know but  wouldn't do it again huh i think i just still need to get over the whole september eleventh thing you know it'll probably you know i'll probably feel a lot better about it but um.
fisher-topic-desc: Do either of you think affirmative action in hiring and promotion within the business community is a good policy?.
it's it's this i mean if there's a lot of crime you want police right.
if you if you cook stir you know if people cook you know stir fry that that's pretty good food i mean compared to like pasta it's pretty easy and it tastes good but stir fry there there's there's a real taste to it so uh uh why did you why did you start cooking.
i can't i don't know his name either but he's obviously  crazy too.
yeah i i i wish yeah there's l- i- it seems like it's g- that's the case to me anyway it it's like if it's not one pers- um if it's not one country it's going to be another one or or if it's gon- it's just going to be cells of terrorists and.
uh the one on the illness they gave us all sorts of questions and things that we could ask but this one is like who you watch t. v. shows and why or why not so.
right yeah i actually was in l._a. when i was fourteen.
i'll go ahead and start um no i don't think that that five fifteen is high enough for minimum wage i think that no one could live on even two incomes of five fifteen an hour even fulltime.
fisher-topic-desc: If each of you had the opportunity to go back in time and change something that you had done, what would it be and why?.
i don't know if i'd want to do that i'd just send them some pictures  no i i'm.
where  with my age there was no computer.
yeah it is bioterrorism i i  i really don't have you know people talk about it well my my answer to bioterrorism is really different from anybody else's i'm like well this is supposed to happen.
yeah  yeah i've heard quite a few stories of that happening where.
